#Notes of Chapter 10 (Introduction to SQL Programming Techniques)

 - application programs or database applications, and are used as canned transactions by the end users

- Most database systems have an interactive interface where these SQL commands can be typed directly into a monitor for execution by the database system

- Impedance mismatch is the term used to refer to the problems that occur because of differences between the database model and the programming language model.
like : 

1 - The first problem that may occur is that the data types of the programming language differ from the attribute data types that are available in the data model

2- the results of most queries are sets or multisets of tuples (rows), and each tuple is formed of a sequence of attribute values. In the program, it is often necessary to access the individual data values within individual
tuples for printing or processing. Hence, a binding is needed to map the query result data structure 

Impedance mismatch is less of a problem when a special database programming language is designed that uses the same data model and data types as the database model. One example of such a language is Oracle’s PL/SQL. The SQL standard also
has a proposal for such a database programming language, known as SQL/PSM. For object databases, the object data model (see Chapter 12) is quite similar to the data
model of the Java programming language, so the impedance mismatch is greatly reduced when Java is used as the host language for accessing

-  Connecting to the Database. The SQL command for establishing a connection to a database has the following form: CONNECT TO <server name>AS <connection name> AUTHORIZATION <user account name and password> ;

The programmer or user can use the <connection name> to change from the currently active connection to a different one by using the following command:
SET CONNECTION <connection name> ;
Once a connection is no longer needed, it can be terminated by the following command:
DISCONNECT <connection name>

Dynamic sql is  like static sql commands but stored as string then we excute  instead of building alot of filteers we write it on single string then we  excute


embedded SQL, where the queries are part of the program source code. A precompiler is typically used to extract SQL commands from the program for processing by the DBMS, and replacing them with function calls to the DBMS compiled code. We presented an
overview of embedded SQL, using the C programming language as host language in our examples. We also discussed the SQLJ technique for embedding SQL in Java programs. The concepts of cursor (for embedded SQL) and iterator (for SQLJ) were
presented and illustrated by examples to show how they are used for looping over the tuples in a query result, and extracting the attribute value into program variables for further processing


Stored Procedures  save and do the previous commands again which you have done before and you can creat it by

CREATE Procedures ( THE PROCDEURES NAME )  AS ( COMMANDS)  GO;

WHEN we call it back EXEC  ( THE PROCDEURES NAME )  , we can add some constrains on it to pass varaiables everytime  and not just calling it 
